Well, my experience as the Jehovah's Witnesses, which is actually our fairly extensive, is
they are mild-mannered.
They are ardent, enthusiastic for their particular view, but so are many people in my experience.
The idea that it is extremism to think your own religion is true and another one is false,
as being terrorism is to be frank absurd and would not be accepted in virtually any country
that I can imagine.
I completely agree with the view that it is the Russian government who are behaving
extremely in this situation and that there's nothing in the evidence that I've read in
support of the charges brought against the Jehovah's Witnesses, which justify labeling
that as extremist.
Only in Jehovah's Witnesses extremists can do nothing to enhance Russia's reputation
as a civilized nation.
Any decision which is adverse to the Jehovah's Witnesses will affect others in the sense
that it will be a warning sign that if you fall out of line with whatever the Russian
authorities view is, you will be in jeopardy.
It's a clear signal to do what you're told and to avoid expressing views or having
beliefs which the Russian state disagrees with.
The message which this legislation gives about religious freedom in Russia is an entirely
negative one.
You can believe whatever you want so long as you believe what I tell you.
In my view, a shocking example of a bad law being used for a worse purpose.
Clearly, the Jehovah's Witnesses could bring a case before the Strasbourg Court.
That is, of course, time-consuming and slow, but the draconian and extreme nature of
the sanctions being taken against the Jehovah's Research.
And also, their permanent consequences in terms of the confiscation of property ought
to prompt the Strasbourg Court into trying to maintain the status quo before hearing.
Clearly, it will be a very testing time and they will be subject to a higher degree of
persecution than they've had to suffer already.
I would say, from my experience of meeting and working with Jehovah's Witnesses, is that
I find it surprising in the extreme to regard them as extremists or as a social danger.
Some may find them irritating, but, of course, being irritated with people is no reason
for shutting them down or removing their rights.